# scRNA_BioinformaticsProj

**Introduction**
	Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) is a blood cancer caused by the accumulation of immature cells. It is characterized as an aggressive cancer as “most patients initially respond to chemotherapy, [but] 75% relapse and succumb to the disease within 5 years of diagnosis” (Galen et al., 2019). These AML tumors are composed of both stem cells and differentiated cells as the “[hematopoietic stem cell] HSC commitment proceeds through a series of increasingly lineage committed progenitor states” (Laurrenti and Gottgens, 2018). Current treatments for AML include the enhancement of T-cell-mediated AML cell clearance, but “immunotherapy trials have been less successful than in other cancers'' (Lichtenegger et al. 2017).
	At a single cell resolution, there are many types of data that can be found: gene expression with scRNA-seq, open chromatin with scATAC-seq, genome with scWGS, multi-omics with scRNA/scDNAme, DNA methylation with scDNAme-seq, and cell-surface molecular profiling with CyTOF or CITE-seq. These information types provide data for stem-ness, developmental hierarchies, and interaction between malignant and immune cells. Trends in cell studies have increased with the increasing consumer accessibility of single-cell genomic methods. Typically, in scRNA-seq experiments, organs are extracted from tissues of the donor. The tissue is dissociated and the cells isolated. Then single cells are purified using any number of different techniques: droplets, FACS, microfluidics chips, or nanowells. After this, reverse transcription and cDNA amplification of the cells’ RNA occurs. Then, a cDNA library is constructed, sequenced, and analyzed. 
	In this assignment, we will be analyzing scRNA-seq data from peripheral blood mononuclear cells from healthy patients and patients with AML. The dataset was collected using nanowell-based technology in which transcriptional and mutational data were extracted from single cells in bone marrow. The dataset contains the profiles of 38,410 cells from 40 bone marrow aspirates, including 16 AML patients and 5 healthy donors. From this dataset, we analyzed the data from four healthy and four AML patients. Then dimensionality reduction using PCA and UMAP, and k-means clustering methods were used to identify distinct cell types and gene expression differences across cell types and malignancy status.
